Every once in a while, a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything….Well, today, we’re introducing three revolutionary products of this class. The first one is a widescreen iPod with touch controls. The second is a revolutionary mobile phone. And the third is a breakthrough Internet communications device. So, three things: a widescreen iPod with touch controls; a revolutionary mobile phone; and a breakthrough Internet communications device. An iPod, a phone, and an Internet communicator. An iPod, a phone…are you getting it? These are not three separate devices, this is one device, and we are calling it iPhone. Today, Apple is going to reinvent the phone….” 
 
  “One of the most important trends in personal technology over the past few years has been the evolution of the humble cellphone into a true handheld computer, a device able to replicate many of the key functions of a laptop.
 ….Now, Apple Inc., whose digital products are hailed for their design and innovation, is jumping into this smart-phone market with the iPhone, which goes on sale in a few days after months of the most frenzied hype and speculation we have ever seen for a single technology product.
 ….We have been testing the iPhone for two weeks, in multiple usage scenarios, in cities across the country. Our verdict is that, despite some flaws and feature omissions, the iPhone is, on balance, a beautiful and breakthrough handheld computer.”
 — “The iPhone Is a Breakthrough Handheld Computer”
 AllThingsD, June 26, 2007 
 The New York Times website is featured in this early iPod commercial.
 
 In many ways, the iPhone marked the beginning of mobile news as a permanent part of journalism.  
 The following comes from Pew’s 2008 “State of the News Media” report:
  “In 2007, the evidence suggests online access through mobile phones was still a niche activity. The debut of Apple’s iPhone in June of 2007 may begin to change that. In February 2008, the company projected sales of 10 million iPhones by the end of the year. In addition, other technology companies such as Google are developing software and other technology to make it easier to use the Internet over the phone.
 ….For those people who do use their phones online, what news sites do they tend to visit? Data from January of 2007, six months before the release of the iPhone, found it is a mix of traditional news, pure play and sports sites.
 For now, the heaviest consumers of mobile video appear to be men and young people, according to research conducted by comScore, a leading online measurement firm. More frequent use over all should rise when and if other demographic groups become more regular users….” 

		
		
		
	

	
	

	Press freedom depends on people like you.
Poynter’s fact-checking, watchdog reporting, and journalism training is possible because readers like you support us. Will you join our community of over 1,500 donors with a gift today?



DONATE


	
		Tags: journalism history, Media History, MediaWire	



	
		
			
				
					
						
					
				

				
					
						
							
								David Shedden							
						

												

						
							David Shedden						
					

				

			

		
		
	




	
			

	
		

						Website
    

-->
	
	
		More News

	
	
	 
					
			
				
					
					
	
		
			
									
											
								

		
	
			
			
				Opinion | A Washington Post investigation prompts changes at surveillance company Flock
				The Post found dozens of cases of police misusing license plate readers. Flock is adding safeguards intended to prevent abuse.

				
														

-->
				
					August 14, 2026

					
					Angela Fu

		        

			

		

	


	
		
			
									
											
								

		
	
			
			
				White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt is departing her job. Here’s how PolitiFact fact-checked key moments.
				Leavitt often echoed Trump’s talking points as she responded to White House reporters’ questions. Sometimes her statements needed fact-checking.

				
														

-->
				
					August 14, 2026

					
					Samantha Putterman

		        

			

		

	


	
		
			
									
											
								

		
	
			
			
				Opinion | Karoline Leavitt to step down as White House press secretary
				Plus: Forbes fires a top editor, an AI newsroom beats WIRED to a story and CNN may be up for sale soon

				
														

-->
				
					August 13, 2026

					
					Ren LaForme

		        

			

		

	


	
		
			
									
											
								

		
	
			
			
				Journalists are everywhere in fiction. Here are 20 of the most iconic.
				They investigate superheroes, serial killers and high school scandals — and occasionally break a few ethics rules along the way

				
														

-->
				
					August 13, 2026

					
					Phoenix Chapital

		        

			

		

	


	
		
			
									
											
								

		
	
			
			
				Read your work out loud and other tips for finding your writing voice
				3 tips from our Power of Diverse Voices coaches

				
														

-->
				
					August 12, 2026

					
					Tom Huang

		        

			

		

	


					Back to News
				
					
				

			

			
		
	

			            



		                
		            

		        

	
	        

	        
	        
	             -->
     
                
                            
        
  Become a Poynter Member 
  Don't miss out on a year of learning. 
  JOIN TODAY					
                        Already a Member? Log in
                    

				
        
Start your day informed and inspired.

Subscribe
Get the Poynter newsletter that's right for you.


Media Jobs
Business News Editor - Portland, OR (97219)Oregon Public Broadcasting (OPB)Newspaper Managing Editor - Patagonia, AZ (85624)Patagonia Regional TimesCommunications Strategist - Detroit, MI (48201)American Civil Liberties Union of MichiganEditor & General Manager - Salem, VA (24153)Mountain Media, LLCCity Hall Reporter - New Bedford, MA (02744)New Bedford LightExecutive Director - Minnesota Newspaper Association & Minnesota News Media Institute - Minneapolis, MN (55402)Above The Fold Publishing, LLCStatehouse Reporter, Arizona - Phoenix, AZ (85004)State AffairsAssistant Professor of Public Relations - Fullerton, CA (92831)California State University FullertonAssistant Professor of Journalism - Fullerton, CA (92831)California State University FullertonThe Donald W. Reynolds Chair in Business Journalism - Lexington, VA (24450)Washington and Lee University
Search Media Jobs
Advertise a job



	




	




	




	


    


	        

	    

	






	
	 
	

	




	
		
			
				
					
						
						
							
								
							
						

					

				

				
					
						
						
                            


    
        What do you want to search?
    
    
    
        
        Submit
    
						

					

					
						
							Support responsible news and fact-based information today!

							DONATE						

					

				

			

		



		
			
				
					
						News

	Press Freedom Watch
	The Poynter 50
	Podcasts
	Artificial Intelligence
	Business & Work
	Reporting & Editing
	Fact-Checking
	Ethics & Trust
	Local News


Training

	Categories
	Consulting & Coaching
	For ACES Members
	For Local News Funders


Ethics & Leadership

	Ethics & Leadership
	Ethics Training
	Ethics Articles
	AI Ethics
	Public Editor Project
	Get Ethics Advice


Fact-Checking

	Fact-Checking Articles
	IFCN
	IFCN Grants
	International Fact-Checking Day
	Teen Creator Network
	PolitiFact


Media Literacy

	MediaWise
	Media Literacy Resources
	AI Literacy
	Ambassadors
	Teen Creator Network
	Research & News
	International
	en Español
	MediaWise Training


About Us

	About Poynter
	Mission & Vision
	The Poynter Foundation
	Our People
	Teaching Team
	Our campus
	Event Rentals and Weddings
	Office Space
	History
	Ethics Policy
	Major Funders
	News Releases
	Contact Us



					

				

			

		



		
			
				
					
						Customer Service
Tips & Story Ideas
Advertising
Work at Poynter
Privacy Policy
Subscribe to Poynter’s newsletters
Media Jobs
Events

						
														© All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2026

							The Poynter Institute for Media Studies, Inc. is a non-profit 501(c)3. The EIN for the organization is 59-1630423. You can view The Poynter Institute’s most-recent public financial disclosure form 990 here.